1. What is a Secret in Kubernetes?
A Secret is a Kubernetes object used to store sensitive data such as passwords, tokens, keys, and certificates in key-value form.

2. Why do we use Secrets instead of hardcoding values in Pod YAML?
Because hardcoding sensitive values in Pod YAML, source code, or images is insecure and hard to manage. Secrets separate sensitive configuration from application definitions.

3. What problem do Secrets solve?
They provide a structured way to store and inject sensitive configuration into Pods without embedding credentials directly in manifests or code.

4. Are Secret values encrypted by default?
No. Secret values are base64-encoded by default, not encrypted. Real security depends on RBAC, etcd encryption at rest, API access control, and node security.

5. Where are Secrets stored in Kubernetes?
Secrets are stored in etcd through the kube-apiserver.

6. Which component fetches Secrets for a Pod running on a node?
The kubelet fetches the required Secret from the API server and makes it available to the container.

7. What are the main ways to use a Secret inside a Pod?
A Secret can be used as:
- environment variables
- envFrom
- mounted volume files

8. What is the difference between data and stringData in a Secret manifest?
data requires base64-encoded values.
stringData accepts plain text values, which Kubernetes converts into data internally.

9. What is the default Secret type for generic user-defined secrets?
Opaque.

10. Why is base64 not the same as encryption?
Because base64 is only an encoding format and can be reversed easily without a key.

11. What does kubectl create secret generic do?
It creates a general-purpose Secret for arbitrary key-value data, usually of type Opaque.

12. Why is the keyword generic important?
Because kubectl create secret requires a subtype. generic tells kubectl to create a normal-purpose Secret that supports flags like --from-literal, --from-file, and --from-env-file.

13. What happens if you run kubectl create secret without generic?
kubectl will not know what secret subtype you want and the command will be incomplete/invalid.

14. Why does --from-literal work with generic?
Because generic secrets are meant for arbitrary key-value pairs like username=admin or password=pass123.

15. What is the relation between generic and Opaque?
generic is the kubectl subcommand.
Opaque is the Secret type in the actual Kubernetes object.

16. How do you create a Secret from literals?
kubectl create secret generic app-secret --from-literal=username=admin --from-literal=password=pass123

17. How do you create a Secret from a file?
kubectl create secret generic app-secret --from-file=config.txt

18. How do you create a Secret from an env file?
kubectl create secret generic app-secret --from-env-file=secret.env

19. How do you reference one Secret key as an environment variable in a Pod?
Use valueFrom.secretKeyRef with the Secret name and key.

20. How do you use all Secret keys as environment variables?
Use envFrom with secretRef.

21. How do Secrets appear when mounted as a volume?
Each key appears as a file, and the value becomes the file content.

22. Do mounted Secret volumes update when the Secret changes?
They can update after some delay.

23. Do environment variables from Secrets update automatically when the Secret changes?
No, usually the Pod must be restarted.

24. What is the difference between ConfigMap and Secret?
ConfigMap is for non-sensitive configuration.
Secret is for sensitive data.

25. What are some common Secret types in Kubernetes?
- Opaque
- kubernetes.io/tls
- kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson

26. Which command is used to create a TLS Secret?
kubectl create secret tls my-tls --cert=tls.crt --key=tls.key

27. Which command is used to create a Docker registry Secret?
kubectl create secret docker-registry regcred --docker-server=... --docker-username=... --docker-password=... --docker-email=...

28. What is a common exam mistake when creating Secrets?
Forgetting the generic keyword in kubectl create secret generic.

29. What is a safer way to write Secrets manually in YAML?
Use stringData instead of manually base64-encoding values into data.

30. What is the best one-line summary of a Secret?
A Secret is a Kubernetes object for storing sensitive key-value data, persisted in etcd and injected into Pods through env vars or volumes.
